# Scientific Discourse Tagger (SciDT) 

An LSTM based sequence labeling model for analyzing the structure of scientific discourse in text. We provide a `docker` image that allows the system to be run out of the box with the minimum of configuration needed. 

## Basic Python Requirements 
* Docker (tested with v1.12.3)
* This repository
* Pretrained word embedding as a prebuilt elastic search index data directory. Please download this file (http://bmkeg.isi.edu/data/embeddings/es_index_all_data_unique.tar.gz) and unpack it in an directory on the machine where you will be running the docker image. The file will expand into a directory called `data`. 

## Running Docker

First, build the docker image:

```
  cd $SCIDT_HOME$/docker
  docker build -t scidt .
```
Then run a container based on this image. 
```
  cd $SCIDT_HOME$
  ./start_docker.sh 8888 8787 /path/to/documents /path/to/elasticsearch/data
```
This will then load a docker command prompt with the following additional functionality. 

### SciDT-Pipeline functionality. 

Preprocessing for SciDT is provided by the https://github.com/BMKEG/sciDT-pipeline library. The docker container installs a fully assembled jar from https://zenodo.org/record/177565/. This provides efficient multithreaded systems to run the neccesary time-consuming Stanford-parser-based segmentation of the text into clauses for subsequent discourse tagging. 

### An Elastic Search Index for Word Embeddings. 

Note, due to the memory requirements imposed by loading word embeddings into memory. We use a elasticsearch index of the word embeddings. This speeds up running the tagger (since the entire file does not need to be loaded every time). When you start the docker container, the elastic search index starts automatically. 

### A Simple SciDT Web Server

From the command prompt in the docker image, run: 
```
  cd $SCIDT_HOME$
  python scidt_server.py --use_attention
```
This starts a simple HTML-based web-service that exposes the SciDT library as a webservice and permits rapid processing of article files. 

### SciDT processing of TSV files 

We have added support for running the tagger over directories of `tsv` files generated by the SciDT-Pipeline code. This makes it easier to curate training data from spreadsheets

### Experiment extraction from Results Section

This is still experimental, but two scripts manage the extraction of experimental statements from the text of research articles:

```
  python fill_expt_spans_in_tsv.py \
      --inDir /tmp/data/tsv_clause \
      --outDir /tmp/data/tsv_figs \ 
      --ganntChartDir /tmp/data/gannt
```

This script processes the discourse tags within the `tsv` files to estimate the location of text pertaining to a specific experiment (i.e., 'Fig 1A', etc). This adds a column to the tab-separated `*.tsv` files to generate `*_span.tsv` files with a `fig_spans` column that denotes the system's best guess of the linkage between figures and the underlying narrative text.

A second script extracts each text passage pertaining to separate figures in separate files:
```
  python extract_experiments.py \
      --inDir /tmp/data/tsv_figs \
      --outDir /tmp/data/tsv_expts
```

The output directory (/tmp/data/tsv_expts) then holds one subdirectory for each paper for which there are each one `*.tsv` spreadsheet for each detected figure in the paper. Thus, this system breaks each paper into small subdocuments each pertaining to a subfigure. 

### Use of Jupyter notebooks from within the container for development and experimentation

The container provides access to a Jupyter endpoint that is accessible from outside the container via the link `http://localhost:8888/`. This provides a framework for Python experimentation and development within the docker image.  

# Basic SciDT Function (preserved from original edvisees/sciDT version)

We include these instructions from the original version of SciDT (developed by Pradeep Dasigi under Ed Hovy at CMU)

## Basic Python Requirements 
* Theano (tested with v0.8.0)
* Keras (tested with v0.3.2)
* Pretrained word embedding (recommended: http://bio.nlplab.org/#word-vectors): SciDP expects a gzipped embedding file with each line containing word and a the vector (list of floats) separated by spaces

## Training
```
python nn_passage_tagger.py REPFILE --train_file TRAINFILE --use_attention
```
where `REPFILE` is the embedding file. `--use_attention` is recommended. Check out the help messages for `nn_passage_tagger.py` for more options

### Trained model
After you train successfully, three new files appear in the directory, with file names containing chosen values for `att`, `cont` and `bi`:
* `model_att=*_cont=*_bi=*_config.json`: The model description
* `model_att=*_cont=*_bi=*_label_ind.json`: The label index
* `model_att=*_cont=*_bi=*_weights`: Learned model weights

## Testing
You can specify test files while training itself using `--test_files` arguments. Alternatively, you can do it after training is done. In the latter case, `nn_passage_tagger` assumes the trained model files described above are present in the directory.
```
python nn_passage_tagger.py REPFILE --test_files TESTFILE1 [TESTFILE2 ..] --use_attention
```
Make sure you use the same options for attention, context and bidirectional as you used for training.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

python nn_tsv_passage_tagger.py --test_dir /tmp/data/tsv_clause/ --out_dir /tmp/data/disc_temp --use_attention --att_context clause
